[MUSIC]
How good is an approximation
by Monte Carlo sampling?
Again, we can turn to the central
limit theorem, which tells us
that the variance of our estimate is
controlled in part by m, our sample size.
If we want a better estimate,
we need to choose a larger end value.
For example, if we're looking for
the expected value of theta,
then we can take the sample mean.
In the last video we call this,
Theta star bar.
By the central limit theorem,
the sample mean approximately follows,
I'm going to use this symbol to denote
approximately distributed, normal,
where the mean of this normal distribution
is the true expected value of theta.
And the variance of this
distribution is the true variance
of theta, Divided by our sample size m.
The variance tells us how far our
estimate might be from the true value.
One way to approximate this variance,
the theoretical variance of theta,
is if we replace it with
the sample variance.
We could calculate the sample
variance like this.
Let's call it variance of theta hat.
We're just approximating that integral for
the variance.
So this will be 1 over m.
So it's just the sample mean of theta
i star minus the expected value,
which we're also approximating
with the sample mean.
So let's plug that in here.
Sometimes people also divide by m minus 1,
but
if m is really large then
it won't matter that much.
[COUGH] The standard deviation of our
Monte Carlo estimate is the square root
of that.
The square root and
if we're plugging in the value,
we'll have variance hat of theta
divided by m under the square root.
If m is large, it is reasonable to assume
that the true value will likely be
within about two of these standard
deviations from your Monte Carlo estimate.
We're going to call this, the standard
error of your Monte Carlo estimate.
We can also obtain Monte Carlo
samples from hierarchical models.
As a simple example, let's go ahead and
consider a binomial random variable y.
So y given phi is going to follow
a binomial distribution with 10 trials and
on each trial a probability of
success that's equal to phi.
Let's further assume that phi comes from
its own distribution, that it's random.
So this would be, for example,
if we had a prior for phi.
Let's say it comes from a beta
distribution with parameters 2 and 2.
Given any hierarchical model,
we can always write out the joint
distribution of y and phi.
The joint distribution of y and phi using
the chain rule of probability will be
the distribution of phi times
the distribution of y given phi.
This should look familiar,
it's like the prior times the likelihood.
To simulate from this joint distribution,
we're going to repeat the following
steps for a large number of samples, m.
The first step to simulate from this.
The first step we're going to take to
simulate would be to draw a theta star i.
From its beta distribution.
Then the second step is given this
value that we just drew for phi.
We would draw a sample from
this binomial distribution.
We'll call this sample y star i,
from this binomial distribution,
with 10 trials.
And the success probability
would be the success
probability we just drew, phi i star.
If we repeat this process for
many samples,
we're going to produce
m independent pairs.
Yi phi i pairs.
These pairs right here are drawn
from their joint distribution.
One major advantage of
Monte Carlo simulation
is that marginalizing these
distributions is easy.
Calculating the marginal distribution
of y might be difficult here.
It would require that we integrate
this expression with respect to phi,
to integrate out the phis.
But, if we have draws from the joint
distribution, then we can just discard
the phi i stars and use the y i stars as
samples from their marginal distribution.
This is also called prior
predictive distributions
which was introduced in
the previous course.
In the next segment, we're going to
demonstrate some of these principles.
Remember, we don't yet know how to sample
from complicated posterior distributions
that were introduced in
the previous lesson.
But once we learn that, we're going to
be able to use the principles from this
lesson to make approximate inferences for
those posterior distributions.
[MUSIC]